Nick Holt 11.25.22 Raw Notes 

High level points to address:

-- Shoes matter, but the overall health of your feet matter more. And the hips for that matter as well.
If you have a healthy foot and hips, you can probably wear any shoe and be OK.
So it begs the question --- what is current status of your feet? Health kit screens? Other quick objective measurements?

Ruth: 
Quick Screens: 
Explain how the hips and feet are related to ankle, knees and low back - 
(many times people don't present with foot pain, but they do have back, ankle and knee issues and may not realize it's a feet and hip issue)
- a barefoot squat - the master screen - explain why it's the master screen
- a visual of the barefoot - shape, mobility at the toes etc.
- hand shakes & squeezing  - and then visually seeing the difference from foot to foot afterwards
questions to ask:
is the foot shaped like your shoe or natural shape like a baby foot - wider at the forefoot than the heel?

-- SAID principle in action. Understand what the shoe is doing to your feet and work to offset those damages. Just like we talk about sitting
and what it does to our hips. We need to extend hip joint to offset hip flexed. Same with feet and shoes. Most tennis shoes will be narrow and stiff
so we need to offset that with toe spreaders, toe mobility, plantar resets, human toe spreader, and time barefoot.

-- The role of surface on the body. Not too many sports are played on concrete. We need cushion to protect, but how much?! 
This is the million dollar question -- obviously more than standard minimal shoe but do we need all that cushioning we see on Rafa's Nike's or 
other tennis shoes? Goldie locks principle here - we want enough cushion to protect but not too much to turn off signals from foot or eliminate
strong, stable foundation we get from "feeling" more of the ground. This is a tricky one..

Ruth: 
Explain the engineering principle of the bridge: how the bridge, like the arch of the foot is designed for weight from the top
- stability and strength require that the weight come from above not supported from below
- an open loop system 
- explain basics of the foot anatomy (as if to a 10 year old)

-- Sneaker breakdown. Go through a few examples. How do we modify FFTW for tennis? 
Flat yes. 
Flexible, sorta. But again, here we need to address the sweet spot of having some protection for lateral stop and starts. 
Thin, sorta but goldie locks - see above. 
Wide, yes.

Ruth: 
Focus on unique individual needs, explorations
Talk about our personal experience
Show and tell with our actual shoes?

-- Common tennis pain areas as it relates to sneakers. Basic anatomy if needed?
achilles pain.
Calf strains.
Knee pain.
Foot pain.
Toe pain.
Blisters.

Ruth: 
Heel pain?
ball of foot?
IT band tightness?

-- Barefoot tennis? I saw a video on this and thought it was interesting.

Ruth: I watched this one. Is this the one you're talking about? So interesting.https://youtu.be/zbnMk5YGZsA
-- What else??

Ruth Notes [12/1/22]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_aNeGC6IU0Y  - Nick & Mike's shoptalk on athletic footwear - a great listen
- it doesn't have to be all or nothing but training in natural footwear breeds more information, learning and better overall footwork
- then a shoe that meets some of the criteria of the 4 F's will naturally follow, in my experience
- Rajeev Ram does some barefoot training in the gym - with @sonnymoonfitness (she's a foot nerd and I'm getting in touch with her)
