
Episode 2

1. Intro Ruth or Nick?
Hello 
Welcome
Thank you for listening, taking the time
Nick & I are Foot Nerds. 
We take excellent care of our health and we begin at the foundation: Our Feet
We take care of our health so we can play tennis for a lot longer and feeling great before, during and afterwards.


We're working on a digital protocol for tennis and racquet sports players because we see our tennis communities dealing 
with chronic pain and injuries and we want to help people feel better and play longer.

The bedrock of our project is in restoring healthy feet, since the feet are our foundation and 
affect the entire chain going upwards. We don't often spend enough time taking the best care of our 
feet and the entire body, ankles, knees, hips and backs -  suffers for the lack of awareness and reliable information. 

We're also going to address the upper body as well and deeper into other areas of the 
but today this episode is going to address the charged topic of footwear.

So let's dig in: 

-----------------------
[Nick]
2. Why are talking about footwear today?
-- Shoes matter, but the overall health of your feet matter more. And the hips for that matter as well.
If you have a healthy foot and hips, you can probably wear any shoe and be OK.
So it begs the question --- what is current status of your feet? Health kit screens? Other quick objective measurements?

[from Ruth: maybe tell them to pause the video and take off their shoes. Try to splay, stand up and try to lift the big toe off the 
ground, then the other 8, etc and that FNTennis healthkit will have in depth screens and experiments to improve the health of the feet]
- we love to play tennis but we do that despite dealing with chronic pain, tension patterns and repetitive injuries.
- so much of these tension patterns, injuries begin with our footwear and we're not even really aware of it because the pain we 
have in our knees and backs - we don't associate with our footwear b/c our feet don't necessarily hurt.

--Explain how the hips and feet are related to ankle, knees and low back - 
(many times people don't present with foot pain, but they do have back, ankle and knee issues and may not realize it's a feet and hip issue)
- a barefoot squat - the master screen - explain why it's the master screen
- a visual of the barefoot - shape, mobility at the toes etc.
- hand shakes & squeezing  - and then visually seeing the difference from foot to foot afterwards
questions to ask:
is the foot shaped like your shoe or natural shape like a baby foot - wider at the forefoot than the heel?




Definitions:
- Natural footwear vs Unnatural footwear - A continuum
- The anatomy of a shoe



The SAID principle and footwear






[Nick]

 

[Ruth]




Closing Comments [Nick]

























