This is a sandbox to explore what we want in the healthkit - Add your name and notes anywhere you like in response or 
new ideas, insights, vetos etc. 

In the way of lessons and experiments/movement practices
We'll roughly model our product after healthkits

Guidelines for filming videos for highest quality but they do not have to be over the top professional
Standards:
1. Most important is audio quality
2. Next is a clean background and decent clarity.

Following the Foot & Ankle HealthKit model
- adding detailed tennis specificity that suits our communities

Possible Contents of the FNTennis HealthKit: 

Welcome 
How to navigate your Tennis Healthkit
Course Material
Start Here: PDF [Proof of Work sheet]
Lessons: Videos (We’ll need to discuss if we want to record these lessons or use the ones Nick has already created 
or a combination of both?) 
- I'm wondering what it would be like if the lessons were actually presented as a short lesson combined with a movement practice or 
exploration. Think/imagine a short lesson that illustrates why we will be doing what were doing, followed by the movement and then some 
type of discussion/reflection question to explore? 

The existing lessons of healthkit could be like the foundational lessons if you will and we can choose the ones most specific
to tennis and be ruthlessly picky about the most important ones to include.
Then instead of the experiments presented the way they are in the current healthkit, we create a series of movement practices from feet to head that we think 
would be the most vauable and create mini movement classes that people could actually follow along to. In this way, we would still be
able to teach the fundamentals of health kit and keep those lessons but this is where the specificity would come in.
People would still work on their fundamentals:
- moving toward natural shoes outside of their tennis play
- feet care thru - toega, lacrosse ball, etc
- 10 minutes of balance training
- 10 minutes of squat training

These being the fundamentals of healthkits and then adding in the creative movements for the entire human tennis playing organism :) 
What do you think?
1-Welcome/Introductions
2-Golden Rules
3-Pain
4-Footwear
5-Balance Training
6-Restoring Hip Function
7-Community? 
- perhaps we replace this community one with something else since tennis peeps have pretty distinct community nutrients already in place or maybe reinforcing the idea here that our tennis community is only as strong as our weakest feet, ankles, knees and hips :) 
And that taking care of ourselves from the ground up is also taking care of the health of our tennis communities. 
- unpack the idea of how taking care of our own health first takes care of our communities

We should discuss where we place the ideas from these videos and where we locate them to make the mosst sense
in the flow of the kit.
Progressions: 
Daily Practice 
Golden Rules

Bonus Lessons: In the healthkit, these are the lessons from the previous version of the kit
Proof of work, Screens, First Principles, Becoming a Scientist, Choosing experiments, Data, The Six Pillars, Hips, Less is More, Acute Injuries, Training, Physical Tools, Self Regulation, Feedback


Screens: I like the idea of screens coming before the bulk of the lessons. Your thoughts?
And it may be worth exploring the possibility of different screens or more screens specific to tennis?
Foot
Ankle
Squat
Hip
Balance
