Why are we creating foot nerd tennis?
What problem does it solve?

How will we build it?
Who will be involved?
How will it integrate with HealthKit?

What is foot nerd tennis? (concrete, clear offer - duration, content, price)
Who is it for?

Nick Holt raw notes - 10/18/22
Big high level "whys"

Move the needle in the public health crisis that is the western world (sick, diabetic, in pain, under muscled, overfat, etc). 

Find stats on metabolic heakth - it's a mess!

Tennis can be a huge lever that gets people moving, is fun, and can be played well into the later years of life. 

FNT will give people the ability to play tennis longer, more frequently, and with less pain.

A big problem is that most tennis players experience pain during or after playing. 
This stops them from playing as much as they would like. So they move less. Less movement = worse health.

FNT outcomes:
Less pain, better performance, more fun.

What is better performance? more power, quicker to the ball, more stamina, less fatigue. 

Pain points
Tennis elbow. Golfers elbow (I had golfers elbow (medial epycon.) eventhough i don't play golf)
Foot pain. Achilles tendonitis. Planter fascitis. Jacked up toes.



FNT will approach training from a different perspective than what is currently out there. It's not about doing "this exercise" or following a specific program. The goal is to give someone the tools to understand their body. Start with the health kit. 

The health kit gives someone the upgraded mental dashboard / operating system so that they can restore their own health.

They can play tennis pain free. And have more fun doing it.

Foot health / Sneakers 

Main point --> Prioritize foot health over sneakers. Smart sneakers - one that understands function of foot and ankle and maximizes the ability for the foot to produce force - to act like a magical spring! To load the right muscles so that connective tissue doesn't have to do all the work.

Once you understand foot health, you realize the exact shoe you choose isn't that important. Even if you play 5 days a week, that's still less than 5% of the usable active hours in the day. What you do with other 95% of your time will be way more impactful than the shoe you wear.

If you understand how the feet are designed to work, you constantly act to restore health to your feet by training weak points, you will be OK in most tennis sneakers.


Ruth Notes: [10.21.22]
Why are we creating foot nerd tennis?
- because tennis players love to play and play is the way
- but so many who do play, do so despite dealing with chronic pain, tension patterns and repetitive injuries
- because tennis players of all levels have super clarity about what they love doing and they love playing tennis
and supporting people who understand play but may not understand first principles thinking like: SAIDS and the body is self healing 
self organizing organism designed to feel good when we play and before and after doing that activity.
- because tennis players who are in pain or dealing with injuries most likely don't get an education that it is possible to play pain free
and prevent chronic injuries and that we can play for longer and feel good.

- because 
What problem does it solve?
- the problme that FNTennis solves is playing tennis is meant to fun and most who play hurt in some fashion or another, so
that play and pain are associated with one another. FNTennis solves for that playing all levels of tennis doesn't have to have chronic
tension and pain associated with the sport.
- The problem is tennis is fun but is associtated with pain and chronic tension in the feet, ankles, knees, hips, torso, shoulders, elbows
wrists and hands
- FNTennis solve the pain problem by teaching people how to understand pain, injury and tension patterns from 1st principles thinking


How will we build it?
Who will be involved?
How will it integrate with HealthKit?

What is foot nerd tennis? (concrete, clear offer - duration, content, price)
- FNTennis is a course designed to teach players how to build pain free longevity into their game
- FNTennis is course that teaches players to understand their bodies from a 1st principles perspective
- FNTennis is course designed to empower players who love to play and want to play for as long as possible.
- FNTennis helps players understand how to assess their own bodies throughout their tennis lives and know what to do 
to heal, build strength and mobility into their practices
- FNTennis is a course in healthy living and understanding our bodies best and what they need to be strong, agile and pain free
- When we approach our tennis game and life in this way, we avoid exporting our health to an outdated and overtaxed system that probably will not
will help us get to the root cause of our issues. 


Who is it for?
- players of all levels who love to play and want to play as long as possible
- for players who don't know about how to keep their bodies mobile, strong, and pain free
- for players who have tried everything to mitigate their pain and haven't been able to find solutions
- for anyone who wants to understand their body better and how to keep it healthy

